Deep Learning Deployment Workflow for Tea Plantation Farm

Deep learning models can be used to automate a variety of tasks in the tea plantation industry, such as pest detection, disease diagnosis, and yield prediction. However, deploying a deep learning model in a production environment can be challenging, especially for large and complex models.

The following workflow provides a step-by-step guide to deploying a deep learning model for a tea plantation farm:

1. Data collection and preparation

The first step is to collect a large and diverse dataset of images from the tea plantation. This dataset should include images of healthy and unhealthy tea plants, as well as images of different pests and diseases. Once the dataset has been collected, it needs to be preprocessed to ensure that it is in a format that can be used by the deep learning model. This may involve cleaning the data, resizing the images, and converting the images to a specific format.
For this model we have used an already prepared dataset available online for both healthy v/s unhealthy and for types of disease as well.

2. Model training

Once the dataset has been preprocessed, it can be used to train the deep learning model. This is a computationally expensive process, so it is important to use a powerful computing platform. Once the model has been trained, it needs to be evaluated on a held-out test set to ensure that it is performing well.

3. Model deployment

Once the model has been trained and evaluated, it can be deployed to the production environment. This may involve deploying the model to a cloud platform or to an on-premises server. The model also needs to be integrated with the other components of the tea plantation management system.

4. Model monitoring and maintenance

Once the model has been deployed, it is important to monitor its performance and make sure that it is still accurate. This may involve collecting new data from the tea plantation and retraining the model on a regular basis.

The following diagram shows a high-level overview of the deep learning model's workflow in a tea plantation farm:

